Hello, everyone,
this is Firebase fundamentals.
I have one goal today, and
that is to teach you all how to build real
time authenticated, secure and
scalable websites on Firebase.
My name is David East.
I'm a developer relations engineer and I
am very excited to be here today because,
well, I love teaching people Firebase and
also I love FrontedMasters.
I mean, it's not related to the course,
but I have been here, I've been watching
fFrontedMasters since 2013, so this is
a nice check on the bucket list item.
So we're gonna have
a lot of fun here today.
So ,before I jump into everything
that we're gonna be doing,
I wanna kinda go through
the logistics of this course.
So things that you need
to have installed and
where we're gonna be getting
the course material from.
I'm gonna have this site deployed,
this is fronted-masters.web.app,
you can go to that.
Also everything in this course or
in this site,
I like call this the companion guide,
but everything in this companion guide,
all that we're gonna be doing is
on this GitHub repo right here.
So if you clone that down and
you wanna run this site locally,
you can do that just cd into the guide and
npm i and then npm run dev.
But also we want to make sure that we
have Java 18 is the one I recommend
installing because that's what
worked on my machine, but
anywhere between Java 12 to 18 should be
good and Node 16 also recommended but
I believe anything Node 12
through 16 should be good.
The GitHub repo the way it works is
that we have all these folders which
are numbered off of the sections that
we're gonna be going through and
each one has a start and a final.
Final is obviously everything
that's finished and
started just kind of gonna
have all the boilerplate code.
So when we get to the exercises and demo
parts of this, we're gonna go to that cd
internet, npm install it and
then run all the code and see it all work.
So that's how it's gonna go.
So I'm going to start out with a little
bit of an intro about Firebase.
And so with this,
you can kind of think about this companion
guide is like a bit of an e-book
it's got a ton of information
I wrote through it with
a little table of contents, but
if you hit the period key,
it turns into slides.
I was really proud about that one.
>> Why do we need to install Java?
>> Yes, great question.
Why do you need to install Java?
Because Java is similar to JavaScript,
and I'm just kidding.
Because we're gonna be using
the Firebase emulator suite, and
the Firebase emulator suite is a big jar,
and
it actually has a bunch of
Java code that needs to run.
You won't be writing any Java, but you
need to do that to run Firebase services
locally, which is a best
practice in the Firebase world.
So what is Firebase?
Firebase is a platform for
building mobile and web applications,
and it has over 20 products or
services or features,
however you wanna call them, and that
can feel kind of overwhelming at first.
We could go into the Firebase site,
which I think this one right here,
and you can see that there's even
three pillars, there's Build,
Release and Monitor, and Engage.
Now we're going to be focusing
on this Build pillar, but
even within Build, we have one,
two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine, ten,
11 products or services on here.
And then even in these ones Release and
Monitor, Engaged is even more in there.
I think the total number depending on how
you count, it is like anywhere to 24 and
26 things.
But the good news is you don't have to
worry about learning 24 or 26 different
things, you just need to kind of think
about Firebase in two different ways.
I'd like to say that Firebase
is serverless infrastructure for
developers and growth tools for
business developers and marketers.
So both parts are important, one will
help you build all your stuff out and
the other will help you kind of help
with a lot of KPIs, statistics, ARPU,
a lot of other business words that I'm not
super great at because I like to hide over
here in the Build section, and
let the Release and Monitor,
Engaged people tell me things
about how that world works.
But so today we're just going to
be working all on the serverless
infrastructure side and how we're
going to be building with Firebase.
And I love to tell the story
about how Firebase got started.
So Firebase is over ten years old at
this point and even before Firebase
started out back I think in 2011 or so,
2012 something around that timeframe,
Firebase was actually a startup called
Envolve, kind of like evolve, involve and
it was a chat widget that was very popular
to be embedded on celebrity websites.
And you would just kind of put that on
there and then everyone on a fan site can
all talk to each other or
to the celebrity of choice.
And that was something that
was going really popular, but
they started noticing a trend
with a lot of their customers.
They would have these feedback sessions,
and they would ask them like,
Hey, what would you like
to do with the chat widget?
And they had a lot of customers that say,
Actually, what we're doing is we're
setting display none on your chat widget
and we're just writing JavaScript messages
as JSON and then we're deserializing
them on other clients, and
we can run our entire application state
that way through your chat widget.
And they realised, people are using
this as a real time database, so
they went and they pivoted and they
rebuilt the whole platform as Firebase.
Today, we're gonna be covering
all from that perspective,
we're going to be talking
about Firebase Hosting,
which is how you can deploy your
site from the CLI to a Global CDN.
We're going to be covering FireStore,
which is a cloud hosted real time
database, Firebase authentication so
you can sign users up
without having to run a server and
manage accounts and things like that.
We're gonna also talk about security, how
we're gonna make sure all this is secure.
Since it's a serverless system,
the security is a bit different
than a traditional system.
And then we're gonna end up the day why
talking about Cloud Functions about all
the times where you do need
to run server code, and
it's really cool to do it
in response to events, and
that we're going to learn all those
events before we get to that section.
So for me, my name is David East.
I've actually been working on Firebase
since 2014 back when it was a little
startup.
This is my picture from my Week 1.
Yeah, that was me over eight
years ago with the hair and
my wife begged me not to use this picture,
but
I think it's kind of shows maybe the
wisdom, maybe I've grown since those days.
I had no idea what I was doing then.
And so with Firebase, it can be kind of
a perspective shift when you first start
out, because if you've been used to
building traditional applications or
as Firebase applications,
things are going to be a little different.
With a traditional architecture,
you have a client,
it could be a phone, it could be a laptop,
it could be so many different things, and
if it wants to reach out to your back end,
you are going to do, let's say,
a get request through to some
API that lives on your server.
And then that's going to go
out to some storage layer.
And then maybe that also reaches out
to some authentication system, but
your server acts as a sort of centralized
API gateway is a common term people
have for that.
And so you reach out to one server or
what you kind of see as one server, and
then you reach out to all of
the solutions hosted on that server.
With Firebase, it's a lot different
because you just reach out to the service.
That's it, there's no common API gateway.
You could make one with Cloud Functions,
but
you'll lose a lot by doing it that way.
You say hey I want to talk to your
database, you go talk to the database.
You say,
Hey I want to go upload some binary files,
you go talk to Cloud Storage.
You want to say,
Hey I want to talk to my Cloud Function,
you go talk to your Cloud Function,
you This go straight to the service.
And so that is a bit of a perspective
shift because you aren't just wrangling
everything up on a server and sending it
down, you are thinking about everything as
talking to one individual
service at a time.